>> Woodruff: WITH THE ROKEST OF
A PEN AND A STIFF REBUKE OF THE
WEST, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT VLADIMIR
PUTIN TODAY CLAIMED THE DISPUTED
REGION OF CRIMEA UNDER MOSCOW'S
CONTROL.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS TUESDAY, THE
EXPERIMENT THAT REACHED BACK
13.8 BILLION YEARS TO MAKE A
DRAMATIC DISCOVERY ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENED AT THE VERY DAWN OF THE
UNIVERSE, JUST A SPLIT-SECOND
AFTER THE BIG BANG.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, THE STORY OF
THE BUSES SHUTTLING THE SAN
FRANCISCO BAY AREA'S TOP TECH
TALENT TO WORK.
FOR SOME, JUST ANOTHER SYMBOL OF
THE REGION'S WIDENING ECONOMIC
DIVIDES.
>> IN FRANCE.
THE CITY IS NO LONGER A PLACE
WHERE YOU CAN AFFORD TO LIVE IN
IF YOU'RE MIDDLE CLASS.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST
SOME OF THE STORIES WE'RE
COVERING ON TONIGHT'S PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE ANNEXATION OF
CRIMEA, BY RUSSIA, BECAME ALL
BUT FINAL TODAY, AFTER A SIGNING
CEREMONY AND A FIERY SPEECH IN
MOSCOW.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER,
TRAVELING IN UKRAINE, REPORTS ON
THE DAY'S DEVELOPMENTS.
>> Reporter: WITH A STROKE OF
HIS PEN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
VLADMIR PUTIN ENDORSED A TREATY,
ADDING CRIMEA TO THE MAP OF
RUSSIA.
IT FOLLOWED AN EMOTIONAL
ADDRESS, AS A DEFIANT PUTIN TOLD
HIS PARLIAMENT HE ACTED LEGALLY
TO RIGHT A HISTORICAL WRONG.
>> ( translated ): CRIMEA HAS
ALWAYS BEEN AND REMAINS AN
INSEPARABLE PART OF RUSSIA.
BOTH TIME AND CIRCUMSTANCES
COULD NOT ERASE IT.
DRAMATIC CHANGES THAT OUR
COUNTRY WENT THROUGH IN THE 20TH
CENTURY COULD NOT ERASE IT
EITHER.
>> Reporter: PUTIN DISMISSED
WESTERN CLAIMS THAT CRIMEA'S
REFERENDUM SUNDAY, TO SECEDE
FROM UKRAINE AND JOIN RUSSIA,
WAS ILLEGITIMATE.
HE ALSO REJECTED ANY SUGGESTION
THAT RUSSIA MEANS TO SEIZE OTHER
PARTS OF UKRAINE.
>> ( translated ): DO NOT
BELIEVE THOSE WHO TRY TO SCARE
YOU ABOUT RUSSIA.
WHO IS SHOUTING THAT CRIMEA WILL
BE FOLLOWED BY OTHER REGIONS?
WE DO NOT WANT THE DIVISION OF
UKRAINE, WE DO NOT NEED IT.
>> Reporter: IT WAS ONLY TWO
WEEKS AGO THAT PUTIN MADE
SIMILAR COMMENTS, DENYING ANY
PLANS TO TAKE OVER CRIMEA.
TODAY'S SPEECH WAS WATCHED WITH
GREAT INTEREST IN THE CRIMEAN
CAPITAL, SIMFEROPOL.
IMMEDIATELY AFTERWARD, WORKMEN
REMOVED ALL REFERENCES TO
UKRAINE FROM PARLIAMENT
BUILDINGS.
>> ( translated ): WE ARE
INCREDIBLY GRATEFUL HAPPY THAT
THIS DAY OF VICTORY HAS ARRIVED,
AND WE HAVE BEEN FREED FROM
OCCUPATION.
NOW WE ARE CITIZENS OF OUR OWN
COUNTRY, RUSSIA.
>> Reporter: MOST CRIMEANS WERE
OVERJOYED AT PUTIN'S SWIFT
ACTION TODAY TO JOIN THEIR
PENINSULA WITH RUSSIA.
AND REACTING TO WHAT MAY PROVE
TO BE THE MOST SIGNIFICANT
SPEECH BY A RUSSIAN LEADER SINCE
THE END OF THE COLD WAR, THEY
CHEERED HIS DECLARATION THAT
MOSCOW WOULD ACT TO DEFEND
ETHNIC RUSSIANS ELSEWHERE. SPEEH
SPARKED A DECIDEDLY DIFFERENT
REACTION FROM THE NEW PRESIDENT
OF UKRAINE.
>> ( translated ): I WOULD LIKE
TO REMIND YOU OF THE HISTORY:
WORLD WAR II STARTED WITH THE
ANNEXATION OF THE TERRITORY OF
OTHER COUNTRIES BY FASCIST
GERMANY.
TODAY THE PRESIDENT OF RUSSIA,
MR. PUTIN, WHO LIKES TO TALK
ABOUT FASCISM A LOT, IS COPYING
THE FASCISTS OF THE LAST
CENTURY.
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE,
UKRAINIAN TROOPS MOVED TOWARD
CRIMEA, WHERE A MILITARY
SPOKESMAN SAID A SERVICE MEMBER
HAD BEEN KILLED WHEN ARMED MEN
STORMED A UKRAINIAN MILITARY
BASE.
BUT IN A TELEVISED SPEECH,
UKRAINE'S INTERIM PRIME MINISTER
SOUGHT TO REASSURE THE KREMLIN
THAT HIS COUNTRY WILL NOT JOIN
N.A.T.O.
>> ( translated ): DESPITE
RUSSIA'S ARMED AGGRESSION
AGAINST UKRAINE, I WILL DO
EVERYTHING POSSIBLE TO UPHOLD
PEACE AND BUILD RELATIONS OF
PARTNERSHIP.
THE COUNTRY WILL BE DEFENDED BY
A STRONG, MODERN UKRAINIAN ARMY.
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, RUSSIA'S
ACTIONS DREW NEW CONDEMNATION
FROM THE WEST.
VICE PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN MET
WITH POLISH PRIME MINISTER
DONALD TUSK IN WARSAW.
>> RUSSIA HAS OFFERED A VARIETY
OF ARGUMENTS TO JUSTIFY WHAT IS
NOTHING MORE THAN A LAND GRAB,
INCLUDING WHAT WAS SAID TODAY
BUT THE WORLD HAS SEEN THROUGH,
HAS SEEN THROUGH RUSSIA'S ACTION
AND HAS REEDFLAWED LOGIC BEHINDE
ACTIONS.
>> Reporter: BIDEN VOWED THE
U.S. COMMITMENT TO ITS EASTERN
EUROPEAN ALLIES IS IRONCLAD.
IN LONDON, BRITISH FOREIGN
SECRETARY WILLIAM HAGUE
ANNOUNCED HIS COUNTRY IS
SUSPENDING MILITARY COOPERATION
WITH RUSSIA.
AND FRENCH FOREIGN MINISTER
LAURENT FABIUS SAID RUSSIA HAS
BEEN SUSPENDED FROM THE GROUP OF
EIGHT INDUSTRIALIZED NATIONS.
RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTER SERGEI
LAVROV REJECTED U.S. AND
EUROPEAN SANCTIONS AS
UNACCEPTABLE.
IN A PHONE CALL, HE WARNED
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY OF
UNSPECIFIED CONSEQUENCES.
KERRY, IN TURN, WARNED THIS
AFTERNOON AGAINST ANY FURTHER
TERRITORIAL MOVES BY THE
RUSSIANS.
>> I'M NOT GOING TO INTO THE
DETAILS EXCEO
WOULD BE AS EGREGIOUS AS ANY
STEP THAT I CAN THINK OF THAT
COULD BE TAKEN BY A COUNTRY IN
TODAY'S WORLD, PARTICULARLY BY A
COUNTRY LIKE RUSSIA WHERE SO
MUCH IS AT STAKE.
>> Reporter: BUT NO WARNING
APPEARS LIKELY TO STAY MOSCOW'S
HAND IN CRIMEA, AT LEAST.
THE RUSSIAN PARLIAMENT IS
EXPECTED TO FORMALLY RATIFY THE
ANNEXATION WITHIN DAYS.
>> Ifill: JUDY TAKES A CLOSER
LOOK AT WHAT MOSCOW MIGHT DO
NEXT, RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION HAS
SUSPENDED SYRIAN DIPLOMATIC
OPERATIONS IN THE UNITED STATES.
TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT ESSENTIALLY
CLOSES THE SYRIAN EMBASSY IN
WASHINGTON, PLUS CONSULAR
OFFICES IN TROY, MICHIGAN AND
HOUSTON, TEXAS.
SYRIAN DIPLOMATS AND STAFF HAVE
UNTIL THE END OF THE MONTH TO
LEAVE THE COUNTRY.
THE U.S. CLOSED ITS EMBASSY IN
DAMASCUS IN 2012.
IRAN AND SIX WORLD POWERS
RESUMED TALKS TODAY ON REINING
IN IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM, BUT
WITH DECIDEDLY DIFFERENT GOALS.
IRAN'S FOREIGN MINISTER SAID THE
VIENNA TALKS WERE MERELY AN
EXCHANGE OF IDEAS.
A TOP EUROPEAN UNION OFFICIAL
SAID THE FOCUS WAS THE "NITTY
GRITTY" OF A DEAL WITH THE U.S.,
BRITAIN, FRANCE, GERMANY, CHINA
AND RUSSIA.
THEIR HOPE IS TO REACH A
COMPREHENSIVE AGREEMENT BY LATE
JULY.
IN AFGHANISTAN, AT LEAST 17
PEOPLE DIED IN A SUICIDE
BOMBING.
THE ATTACKER BLEW HIMSELF UP AT
A CHECKPOINT IN A NORTHERN
PROVINCE.
MORE THAN TWO DOZEN PEOPLE WERE
WOUNDED.
IT'S THE LATEST IN A SERIES OF
ATTACKS AHEAD OF NEXT MONTH'S
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
THERE WAS ANOTHER TWIST TODAY IN
THE STORY OF THAT MISSING
MALAYSIAN JETLINER.
BUT, IT BROUGHT INVESTIGATORS NO
CLOSER TO KNOWING WHAT HAPPENED.
THAT, IN TURN, PRODUCED HEATED
NEW DEMANDS FOR ANSWERS, NOW IN
CHINA.
WE HAVE THIS REPORT NARRATED BY
TOM CLARKE OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS.
>> THIS MORNING, IN A BEIJING
HOTEL, OFFICIALS MET WITH
FAMILIES OF SOME OF THE 227
MISSING PASSENGERS ON BOARD
FLIGHT MA M.H.370 AND WATCHED AY
TURN TO ANGER.
THIS WOMAN LOST HER COUSIN.
HER SIGNED LETTERS, A MESSAGE TO
INVESTIGATORS.
HUNGER STRIKE AND PROTESTS TELL
THE TRUTH -- RETURN OUR
RELATIVES.
THE FAMILIES' FRUSTRATION STEMS
FROM THE FACT THAT 11 DAYS, THE
OFFICIAL STORY NEVER STAYED THE
SAME.
ORIGINALLY THE PLANE'S LAST
LOCATION WAS GIVEN AS THE SOUTH
CHINA SEA.
THEN IT WAS CONFIRMED MILITARY
RADAR PICKED THE PLANE UP
HUNDREDS MILES TO THE WEST IN
THE ANDAMAN SEA.
EARLY ON, PILOT AND CREW WERE
NOT SUSPECTS, NOW THEY'RE
AMONGST THE PRIME SUSPECTS.
MORE THAN A WEEK AFTER IT
SUPPOSEDLY DISAPPEARED WITHOUT
TRACE AFTER TAKEOFF, IT EMERGED
THE PLANE IN FACT FLEW ON FOR
SEVEN HOURS.
THE SEARCH AREA COVERS 2 MILLION
SQUARE NAUTICAL MILES, AN AREA
LARGER THAN AUSTRALIA.
THE CONTROL OF INFORMATION COULD
BE CRUCIAL NOT JUST FOR FAMILIES
BUT FOR THE INVESTIGATION
ITSELF.
>> THE QUESTION IS SOME OF THE
INFORMATION HAD BEEN POLITICALLY
FILTERED, ARE PEOPLE NOT GIVING
IT OUT OR DENYING IT BECAUSE
THEY WOULD LOSE THEIR JOBS.
>> TIME MILITARY RADAR SAW THE
PLANE AT THE TIME IT DISAPPEARED
BUT THEY WAITED TEN DAYS TO
SHARE THE INFORMATION.
EYEWITNESSES REPORTED SEEING A
PASSENGER JET FLY OVER THE
ISLAND SIX HOURS AFTER M.H.370
DISAPPEARED.
>> Ifill: THE GOVERNMENT OF
THAILAND LIFTED A STATE OF
EMERGENCY TODAY, NOW THAT
VIOLENCE IN BANGKOK HAS ABATED.
THE DECREEAS I WMPOSED TWO
MONTHS AGO IN THE FACE OF MASS
PROTESTS DEMANDING THE PRIME
MINISTER RESIGN.
LAST MONTH, A THAI COURT STRUCK
DOWN SEVERAL PARTS OF THE
DECREE.
U.S. AUTHORITIES SAY THEY'VE
BROKEN UP A CHILD PORNOGRAPHY
RING THAT PREYED ON HUNDREDS OF
CHILDREN IN THIS COUNTRY AND
OVERSEAS.
THEY ANNOUNCED 14 ARRESTS TODAY.
THE RING ALLEGEDLY ENTICED 250
BOYS, AND A FEW GIRLS, TO POST
IMAGES THAT WERE USED ON A
SUBSCRIPTION-BASED WEBSITE.
THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND
SECURITY, JEH JOHNSON, SAYS IT'S
ONE OF THE LARGEST SUCH
OPERATIONS EVER.
>> THE SITE HAD MORE THAN 27,000
MEMBERS INVOLVED IN PRODUCING
AND DISTRIBUTING CHILD
PORNOGRAPHY ON A MASSIVE SCALE.
THE MAJORITY OF THE VICTIMS OF
THESE HEINOUS CRIMES WERE
BETWEEN THE AGES OF 13 AND 15,
WITH TWO VICTIMS UNDER THE AGE
OF THREE.
>> Ifill: THE INVESTIGATION IS
CONTINUING, WITH MORE ARRESTS
EXPECTED.
BLACK FIREFIGHTERS IN NEW YORK
CITY HAVE REACHED A SETTLEMENT
OVER RACIAL DISCRIMINATION.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT TODAY SAID SOME
1,500 MINORITY CANDIDATES WILL
BE ELIGIBLE FOR BACK PAY
TOTALING $98 MILLION.
THEY TOOK ENTRANCE EXAMS THAT
WERE FOUND TO BE BIASED.
THE NEW YORK FIRE DEPARTMENT IS
85% WHITE.
PRESIDENT OBAMA AWARDED THE
NATION'S HIGHEST MILITARY HONOR
TODAY TO TWO DOZEN ARMY
VETERANS, FROM WORLD WAR TWO,
KOREA AND VIETNAM.
A REVIEW FOUND THEY'D BEEN
DENIED THE MEDAL OF HONOR
BECAUSE OF RACIAL OR RELIGIOUS
PREJUDICE.
ONLY THREE OF THE SOLDIERS ARE
STILL ALIVE.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THEIR STORIES
LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
THE WHITE HOUSE IS USING A NEW
REPORT ON SPORTS INJURIES TO
BOOST ENROLLMENT FOR HEALTH CARE
COVERAGE.
NEARLY TWO MILLION PEOPLE SOUGHT
EMERGENCY TREATMENT FOR SUCH
INJURIES IN 2012.
WHITE HOUSE SPOKESMAN JAY CARNEY
SAID IT'S ONE MORE REASON TO
SIGN UP FOR COVERAGE.
SO FAR, MORE THAN FIVE MILLION
PEOPLE HAVE DONE SO, BUT THAT'S
STILL A MILLION SHORT OF THE
REVISED GOAL.
>> WE HAVE A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO
SIGNED UP, AND THERE ARE GOING
TO BE MORE.
I DON'T, OUR GOAL HAS ALWAYS
BEEN TO GET A SUBSTANTIAL NUMBER
AND FOR IT TO BE DEMOGRAPHICALLY
AND GEOGRAPHICALLY ALLOCATED IN
A WAY THAT ALLOWS THE
MARKETPLACES TO FUNCTION
EFFECTIVELY.
WE BELIEVE VERY STRONGLY THAT
WE'LL ACHIEVE THOSE GOALS.
>> Ifill: THE ENROLLMENT
DEADLINE IS MARCH 31ST.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
NEARLY 89 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,336.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 53 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,333.
AND THE STANDARD AND POOR'S 500
1,872.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
REACTION TO RUSSIA'S ANNEXATION
OF CRIMEA; CLUES TO WHAT
HAPPENED AT THE DAWN OF THE
UNIVERSE; THE SILICON VALLEY
PERK STIRRING A BAY AREA
CONTROVERSY; NEW QUESTIONS ABOUT
SATURATED FAT'S EFFECT ON THE
HEART; PLUS, AWARDING THE MEDAL
OF HONOR TO ONCE-OVERLOOKED
HEROES.
>> Woodruff: RUSSIA'S SWIFT
CLAIM OF CRIMEA HAS RAISED
SERIOUS QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
FUTURE OF THE REGION, MOSCOW'S
NEXT MOVES, AND WHAT ELSE THE
U.S. AND OTHER COUNTRIES SHOULD
BE DOING ABOUT IT.
TONIGHT, WE GET THREE VIEWS ON
THOSE QUESTIONS FROM:
RICHARD HAASS, PRESIDENT OF THE
COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS AND
FORMER DIRECTOR OF THE POLICY
PLANNING AT THE STATE DEPARTMENT
DURING THE GEORGE W. BUSH
ADMINISTRATION.
JESSICA MATHEWS, PRESIDENT OF
THE CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR
INTERNATIONAL PEACE.
SHE SERVED AT THE STATE
DEPARTMENT DURING THE CLINTON
ADMINISTRATION.
AND DIMITRI SIMES, PRESIDENT OF
THE CENTER FOR THE NATIONAL
INTEREST, A FOREIGN POLICY THINK
TANK, AND A NATIVE OF RUSSIA.
DIMITRI SIMES, TODAY WAS THE ONE
OF THE MOST PASSIONATE SPEECHES
WE HEARD VLADIMIR PUTIN GIVE.
WHAT DO YOU THINK HIS MAIN
MESSAGE WAS TO HIS OWN PEOPLE
AND TO THE WEST?
>> WELL, I THINK HIS MESSAGE TO
HIS OWN PEOPLE IS MOTHER RUSSIA
ARRIVED.
IT CANNOT BE PUSHED AROUND
ANYMORE, IT CANNOT BE IGNORED.
RUSSIA IS A GREAT POWER AND HAS
TO BE TREATED WITH RESPECT OR
ELSE.
THE SECOND MESSAGE TO THE WEST
WAS TWOFOLD.
FIRST, AS FAR AS CRIMEA IS
CONCERNED, IT'S ALL OVER BUT THE
MUSIC.
IT IS A PART OF RUSSIA, AND THIS
IS THE WAY IT IS GOING TO BE.
HOWEVER, RUSSIA DOES NOT PLAN TO
INVADE UKRAINE, AND RUSSIA MAY
BE EVEN UNDER SOME CIRCUMSTANCES
A PART OF A CONSTRUCTIVE
SOLUTION FOR UKRAINE, A
CONSTRUCTIVE SOLUTION WITH
MR. PUTIN HAVING HIS OWN AGENDA.
>> Woodruff: WHAT YOU TAKE
AWAY FROM WHAT MR. PUTIN SAID?
>> I AGREE WITH PART OF WHAT
DIMITRI SAID.
TWO WEEKS AGO, WE HEARD HE HAD
NO PLANS TO ANNEX CRIMEA, AND IF
YOU READ IT VERY, VERY CLOSELY,
HE SAYS, OF COURSE, RUSSIA
RESERVES THE RIGHT TO PROTECT
RUSSIAN CITIZENS, SO THERE ARE
ENOUGH RUSSIANS LIVING IN
UKRAINE AND ELSEWHERE IN THE
FORMER SOVIET EMPIRE.
SO I WOULD CALL THAT DECIDE LID
A MIXED MESSAGE AT VERY BEST.
>> Woodruff: RICHARD HAASS,
HOW DID YOU READ WHAT WE HEARD
FROM PUTIN?
>> NOT A LOT TO ADD, ACTUALLY,
JUDY.
THE REAL QUESTION FOR ALL OF SUS
WHETHER WHAT WE'RE HEARING IS
CRIMEA EXCEPTIONALISM.
HE DID THIS IN ORDER TO
COMPENSATE FOR THE LOSS OF KIEV
AND THIS IS HIS WAY OF SAVING
FACE AND SAVING SOME STRATEGIC
POSITION.
THAT'S ONE SET OF PROBLEMS THAT
POSES TO US, MAINLY THE WAY HE
WENT ABOUT IT.
ON THE OTHER HAND, IT PRESSES
SOMETHING MORE, AN EFFORT TO
REBUILD PARTS OF A LOST EMPIRE,
THEN OBVIOUSLY IT'S FAR MORE
WORRISOME.
WE DON'T KNOW
I'M NOT SURE MR. PUTIN IS.
WE ASSUME THE GUY ACROSS THE
TABLE HAS A FULLY ARTICULATED
AND ELABORATE GAME PLAN.
IT'S FULLY POSSIBLE HE'S
IMPROVISING AND MAKING IT UP AS
HE GOES ALONG AND WHAT HE DOES
NEXT DEPENDS IN PART ON WHAT
DOMESTIC REACTIONS ARE AND
INTERNATIONAL RESPONSES.
>> Woodruff: DIMITRI SIMES,
COULD VLADIMIR PUTIN BE
IMPROVISING AS HE GOES ALONG,
WAITING TO SEE THE REACTIONS
INTERNALLY AND FROM THE WEST
BEFORE HE DECIDES WHAT TO DO
NEXT?
>> I THINK RICHARD IS RIGHT.
JESSICA JUST SAID SOMETHING VERY
IMPORTANT.
PUTIN PROMISED TWO WEEKS AGO NOT
TO INVADE CRIMEA, AND THEN WE
KNOW THEY HAVE DONE IT.
HOWEVER, WHEN PUTIN WAS
PROMISING NOT TO INVADE CRIMEA,
THEY WERE ALREADY TALKING ABOUT
CRIMEA AND THERE WAS JUST ONE
QUESTION, AN EXTENDING OF
UKRAINE.
THEN WHEN THINGS HAPPENED
BETWEEN RUSSIA AND THE UNITED
STATES, THEY HAVE MOVED THE DATE
OF REFERENDUM FORWARD, AND
ANOTHER QUESTION, COMPLETE
INDEPENDENCE FOR CRIMEA AND THEN
JOINING RUSSIA.
I THINK RICHARD IS RIGHT, PUTIN
WAS CHANGING HIS MIND AS
PROGRESSION WAS HAPPENING AND
THE KREMLIN WOULD NOT HAVE TO
PAY A HEAVY PRICE BUT, AT THE
SAME TIME, FELT THAT THE UNITED
STATES AND THE EUROPEAN UNION
WERE TAKING RUSSIA SERIOUSLY.
>> Woodruff: IF RUSSIA STOPS
AT CRIMEA, IF THEY DON'T MOVE
FURTHER, IS THAT SOMETHING THAT
THE WEST, EUROPE AND THE UNITED
STATES CAN ACCEPT?
CAN LIVE WITH?
>> WE'LL HAVE TO LIVE WIT
BECAUSE CRIMEA IS DONE, IT'S
OVER AND WON'T BE REVERSED AND
U.S. POLICY SHOULD NOT BE TO
ROLL THIS BACK.
EVEN AS WE REFUSE TO RECOGNIZE
WHAT HAPPENS, OUR POLICY NOW
SHOULD BE FOCUSING ON EASTERN
UKRAINE AND THE YIEWFN CASE OF
UKRAINE AS IT NOW EXISTS AND ON,
I THINK, A NEW RUSSIA POLICY.
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO PURSUE
THAT BUT LET ME GET RICHARD
HAASS' TAKE ON IT.
IF RUSSIA WERE TO STOP WITH
CRIMEA, CAN THE WEST LIVE WITH
THAT?
>> WELL, WE'LL HAVE TO LIVE WITH
IT UNLESS SUCH A TIME AS
RUSSIA'S FORCED TO DISCOURAGE IT
BECAUSE OF SOME KIND OF A
NATIONALIST REACTION.
BUT I THINK FOR THE FORESEEABLE
FUTURE, THIS IS THE NEW REALITY,
WE'VE GOT TO ACCEPT IT AND WHAT
WE WANT TO DO, THEN, IS TRY TO
USE THIS IN WAYS THAT DISCOURAGE
FURTHER RUSSIAN NEWS, AND THIS
MEANS THE KIND OF THING THAT
VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN IS DOING,
STEPPING UP U.S. SUPPORT FOR THE
NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES THAT ARE
PART OF NATO, SHORING UP UKRAINE
ITSELF.
THE REST OF UKRAINE HAS A
HISTORY OF POLITICAL AND
ECONOMIC DYSFUNCTION.
WE SHOULDN'T TAKE ITS STABILITY
FOR GRANTED.
WE OUGHT TO BE OPENING UP OUR
ABILITY TO EXPORT OIL AND GAS.
WE HAVE TO DILUTE RUSSIAN
FOREIGN POLICY WHICH IS THE
INFLUENCE IT DERIVES FROM ENERGY
EXPORTS.
>> Woodruff: IF THESE ARE THE
KINDS OF STEPS THAT THE U.S. AND
EUROPE TAKE, WHAT WOULD THE
EFFECT BE?
WHAT WOULD THE RUSSIAN REACTION
BE?
>> WELL, I COMPLETELY AGREE WITH
JESSICA AND RICHARD.
AGAIN, AS FAR AS CRIMEA IS
CONCERNED, THERE'S VERY LITTLE
WE CAN DO.
WE CAN MAKE CLEAR THAT THERE
WILL BE NO WESTERN INVESTMENT IN
CRIMEA.
THAT IS UP TO US.
IN TERMS OF REMOVING RUSSIAN
TROOPS, THAT IS NOT IN THE
CARDS.
WHAT I THINK WE SHOULD BE DOING
ARE THINGS THAT ARE QUITE
UNUSUAL FOR THIS ADMINISTRATION.
30s, WE SHOULD THINK
STRATEGICALLY AND UNDERSTAND
WHAT OUR OBJECTIVE IS, AND OUR
OBJECTIVE SHOULD BE NOT TO ALLOW
RUSSIA TO INVADE UKRAINE.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND --
>> Woodruff: ANY MORE OF
UKRAINE?
>> UKRAINE PROPER.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND WHY IT'S
IMPORTANT FOR THE ADMINISTRATION
TO MAKE SURE THERE WOULD BE NO
MORE RUSSIAN INVASION.
AT THE SAME TIME, I WILL BE
TALKING TO THE RUSSIANS ABOUT
THE POSSIBILITY OF BUILDING A
NEW RELATIONSHIP, GETTING OUT
FROM THIS HOLE TO PROVIDE PUTIN
AN INCENTIVE.
MORE PRESSURE AND INCENTIVE.
>> Woodruff: SOUNDS LIKE WHAT
WE'RE HEARING FROM THE
ADMINISTRATION IS MORE
THREATENING TALK THAT IF YOU DO
MORE OF THIS, WE'LL DO X, Y AND
Z, RATHER THAN THE KIND OF
OPENINGS WE EAR HEARING NOW FROM
RICHARD AND DIMITRI.
>> I THINK WE NEED TO BE
OPERATING ON SEVERAL DIFFERENT
LEVELS, SOME WHICH APPEAR TO BE
SOMEWHAT CONTRADICTORY.
WE HAVE GOT TO IMPOSE SOME COST,
EVEN IF THEY'RE VERY, VERY MINOR
AND LEAVE ROOM FOR ESCALATION.
WE HAVE TO BE TALKING SERIOUSLY
TO THE RUSSIANS BECAUSE, AS
HORRIBLE AS WHAT THEY HAVE DONE
IS, IT IS CRUCIAL FOR US TO
UNDERSTAND THAT A SPARK OF THIS
WAS A TERRIBLE EUROPEAN MISTAKE
WHICH THE U.S. ALLOWED TO HAPPEN
WHICH WAS TO MAKE THE
INTEGRATION -- THE ECONOMIC
INTEGRATION AGREEMENT AN
EITHER/OR CHOICE.
>> Woodruff: YOU MEAN WITH
UKRAINE?
>> THE E.U. AND UKRAINE.
AND WHAT THAT SAID TO THE
RUSSIANS WAS UKRAINE IS NO
LONGER A BRIDGE BETWEEN EAST AND
WEST, IT'S A BEACHHEAD FOR THE
WEST RIGHT UP AGAINST OUR BORDER
AND THAT, WE KNOW, WAS THE
RUSSIAN MAIDAN.
SO SOMEONE HAS TO BE TALKING
ABOUT THE MOST SENIOR LEVEL TO
GET AT THAT ISSUE AND TO SAY WE
RECOGNIZE THAT UKRAINE NEEDS TO
BE THAT BRIDGE, LONG-TERM,
STRATEGICALLY, THAT OUGHT TO BE
OUR POSITION.
>> Woodruff: RICHARD HAASS,
PICK UP ON THAT.
>> I THINK IT'S FAIR TO SAY THAT
WHILE THE ADMINISTRATION HAS
PROBABLY DONE OKAY IN RESPONDING
TO THE CRISIS, IT DIDN'T TAKE
ITS EYE OFF THE BALL AND I THINK
ONE OF THE REAL CRITICISMS YOU
CAN MAKE IS THAT FOR THE LAST
FEW YEARS WE'VE ALLOWED
OURSELVES TO BECOME
STRATEGICALLY OBSESSED WITH THE
WRONG PART OF THE WORLD WHICH IS
THE MIDDLE EAST AND WE HAVE
ESSENTIALLY LOST OUR FOCUS BOTH
ON ASIA AND TO A LESSER EXTENT
ON EUROPE AND NOW WE'RE TRYING
TO PLAY CATCH-UP.
I WOULD THINK THE MOST IMPORTANT
THING WE COULD DO IS SPEND MORE
TIME IN BERLIN, TALKING TO THE
GERMAN GOVERNMENT AND TRYING TO
FASHION A REALLY ROBUST RESPONSE
THAT WOULD BASICALLY TELL
MR. PUTIN, HERE'S THE COST WHICH
IS LIMITED YOU REPAY FOR WHAT
YOU HAVE DONE, BUT THERE WILL BE
A DRAMATICALLY GREATER COST
ECONOMICALLY IF YOU WERE TO GO
ON FROM HERE, AND THAT HAS GOT
TO BE A U.S.-GERMAN AND THROUGH
GERMANY-EUROPEAN RESPONSE.
WE CAN ALSO KEEP UP WITH THE
DIPLOMATIC SIDE AND I TAKE THAT
POINT, THE CLICHE OF THE DAY HAS
BECOME OFF RAMPS.
THERE IS AN ARGUMENT THAT WE
MADE THAT WE SHOULD NOT ALLOW
THE TOTALITY TO HAVE THE
U.S.-RUSSIAN RELATIONSHIP TO BE
DEFINED BY CRIMEA ON THE CHANCE
CRIMEA IS SOMETHING OF AN
EXCEPTION.
SO WE WANT TO KEEP OPEN THE
LATIONSHIP.
IN IS PART PART, WE'VE ALSO GOT
TO BE TALKING ABOUT IRAN, SYRIA
AND NORTH KOREA.
RIGHT NOW, I WOULD LIKE TO GO
WITH THE EUROPEAN ACCOUNT.
>> Woodruff: I KNOW WE WILL
COME BACK TO THIS ON MANY
OCCASIONS.
THANK YOU, JESSICA MATHEWS AND
RICHARD HAASS AND DIMITRI SIMES.
>> Ifill: IT'S A MIND-BOGGLING
CONCEPT:
OUR COSMOS EXPANDED FROM ALMOST
NOTHING TO ITS FIRST HUGE GROWTH
SPURT IN JUST A TRILLIONTH OF A
TRILLIONTH OF A TRILLIONTH OF A
SECOND.
AND THAT WAS AFTER THE BIG BANG.
SCIENTISTS SAID THEY CONFIRMED
THAT THEORY BY USING THIS
TELESCOPE AT THE SOUTH POLE TO
LOOK AT THE OLDEST LIGHT
DETECTABLE.
THE LIGHT REVEALS PATTERNS AND
SKEWED LIGHT WAVES, SHOWN HERE
IN RED AND BLUE, THAT WERE
CREATED BY GVITARATIONAL RIPPLES
DURING THIS INCREDIBLE EXPANSION
KNOWN AS COSMIC INFLATION.
SEAN CARROLL IS A PHYSICIST,
COSMOLOGIST AND AUTHOR AT THE
CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF
TECHNOLOGY AND JOINS US TO
EXPLAIN ALL OF THIS.
WE NEED YOUR EXPLANATION.
START BY EXPLAINING COSMIC
INFLATION.
WHAT A TERM!
>> WELL, IT IS.
THE TERM COSMIC INFLATION WAS
COINED AROUND 1980 WHEN THE
ORDINARY ECONOMIC INFLATION WAS
ALSO VERY MUCH IN THE NEWS.
IT WAS ALAN G UTZ, A YOUNG
PHYSICIST AT THE TIME, CAME UP
WITH THE IDEA TO EXPLAIN BASIC
FEATURESO HA TVE THE UNIVERSE.
FOR EXAMPLE, IT LOOKS SMOOTH ALL
OVER THE PLACE.
SO IN THE VERY EARLIEST MOMENTS
THE UNIVERSE WENT THROUGH SOME
ENORMOUSLY FAST,
SUPERACCELERATED EXPANSION, LIKE
PULLING AT THE EDGES OF A SHEET
AND THE EXPANSION WOULD SMOOTH
THINGS OUT.
>> Woodruff: HOW DOES THIS
COMPARE TO THE 1998 DISCOVERY OF
DARK ENERGY?
>> SIMILAR.
IN BOTH CASES WE KNEW THIS WAS A
POSSIBILITY.
IN BOTH CASES WE WERE SURPRISED
IT CAME THE WAY IT DID.
DARK ENERGY WAS A GAME CHANGER
IN TERMS OF OURNDE URSTANDING OF
THE CURRENT UNIVERSE, WHAT IT'S
MADE OF AND SO FORTH, AND WE
HAVE BEEN TRYING TO UNDERSTAND
THE VERY EARLIEST MOMENTS.
BEFORE YESTERDAY THE EARLIEST
MOMENT IN THE UNIVERSE BY WHICH
WE HAD DATA WAS ONE SECOND AFTER
THE BIG BANG.
NOW IT'S A TRILLIONTH OF
TRILLIONTH OF TRILLIONTH OF A
SECOND AFTER THE BIG BANG.
>> Woodruff: WHEN WE THINK
DR. .
>> Ifill: WHEN WE THINK ABOUT
THE UNIVERSE, WE THINK IT'S
EXPANSIVE AND IMMEASURABLE.
AND NOW YOU SAYING IT'S JUST A
SPECK OF THAT.
>> WE ONLY SEE A FINITE PART OF
THE UNIVERSE.
WE SEE A UNIVERSE WITH HUNDREDS
OF BILLIONSF O GALAXIES.
THE AMAZING THING ABOUT THE BIG
BANG MODEL, IN THE FAR PAST,
$14 BILLION, ALL OF THIS STUFF
WAS SQUEEZED TO AN INCREDIBLY
TINY DISTANCE.
SO WHAT SCIENTISTS HAVE DONE IS
TO TAKE THE LAWS OF PHYSICS AS
THEY UNDERSTAND THEM, TO
EXTRAPOLATE THEM WELL BEYOND
ANYTHING WE'VE EVER SEEN BEFORE,
MADE A PREDICTION, AND THAT
PREDICTION CAME OUT TO BE
CORRECT.
SO WE REALLY HAVE A MUCH BETTER
IDEA NOW THAN A COUPLE OF DAYS
AGO THAT WE'RE ON THE RIGHT
TRACK WHEN IT COMES TO WHAT WAS
HAPPENING RIGHT AFTER THE BIG
BANG.
>> THOSE PREDICTIONS HAVE ALWAYS
BEEN THEORIES.
HOW DO YOU GO ABOUT PROVING A
THEORY NOT TO BE A THEORY, AND
IS THAT WHAT WE'VE ACTUALLY DONE
HERE?
HAS IT BEEN PROVEN?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, SCIENCE IN
SOME SENSE NEVER PROVES
ANYTHING.
IT'S ALL ABOUT GATHERING
EVIDENCE, REACHING CONCLUSIONS,
BECAUSE THE OVERWHELMING AMOUNT
OF EVIDENCE GOES FOR ONE MODEL
RATHER THAN SOME OTHER MODEL.
INFLATION, YOU HAVE A
WELL-DEFINEDORGHT AFTER
BIG BANG.
THERE ARE COMPETITORS TO
INFLATION BUT NONE OF THEM WERE
REALLY QUITE AS WELL PUT
TOGETHER AS INFLATION EVER WAS
AND INFLATION MADE THIS VERY
SPECIFIC PREDICTION THAT THE
COMPETITORS REALLY DIDN'T MAKE.
SO RIGHT NOW INFLATION IS WAY
ABOVE EVERYTHING ELSE WE KNOW
WHEN IT COMES TO UNDERSTANDING
THE EARLY UNIVERSE.
THAT'S NOT TO SAY TOMORROW SOME
YOUNG SCIENTISTS WON'T COME UP
WITH AN EVEN BETTER MODEL.
>> Ifill: WHY WAS THIS
EXPERIMENT DONE AT THE SOUTH
POLE?
WHAT IS IT ABOUT THE SOUTH POLE
THAT LENDS ITSELF TO
EXPLORATIONS OF SPACE?
>> THE SOUTH POLE IS A LITTLE
DIFFERENT THAN YOU WOULD THINK.
IT'S OBVIOUSLY VERY COLD, BUT IT
DOESN'T SNOW AT THE SOUTH POLE.
THE AIR IS ACTUALLY VERY, VERY
DRY, AND IT'ATS  A VERY, VERY
HIGH ELEVATION.
THERE'S SNOW ON THE GROUND AND
IT THRIFTS AROUND A LOT, BUT
WHEN YOU LOOK UP INTO THE SKY
FROM THERE, YOU SEE THE UNIVERSE
VERY, VERY CLEARLY.
EVEN THOUGH IT'S A TREMENDOUS
PAIN TO TGE DOWN THERE, AND ONCE
YOU'RE DOWN THERE, IF YOU'RE
THERE FOR THE WINTER, YOU'RE NOT
COMING BACK TILL THE WINTER IS
OVER, BUT IT'S A GREAT PLACE TO
DO OBSERVATIONAL ASTRONOMY.
>> FOR THOSE OF US WHO THINK
THIS STUFF IS REALLY COOL, IT
IS, BUT WHAT IS THE PRACTICAL
IMPACT FOR MOST PEOPLE WHEN WE
CURVE ET SUCH EXCITING
DISCOVERIES SOME.
>> THERE IS ABSOLUTELY ZERO
PRACTICAL IMPACT IN THE
CONVENTIONAL SENSE.
UNRSTADENDING THE ORIGIN OF THE
UNIVERSE IS NOT GOING TO CURE
ANY DISEASE, BUILD YOU A BETTER
Smartphone OR ANYTHING LIKE
THAT.
WHAT IT WILL DO IS HELP US AS A
SPECIES UNDERSTAND OUR PLACE IN
THE COSMOS.
SO I PERSONALLY THINKHAT T THAT
SHOULD AFFECT YOUR EVERYDAY
LIFE.
IT HELPS US REALLY APPRECIATE
WHAT THE UNIVERSE IS, HOW IT
BEHAVES AND THAT HAS TO FEED
INTO HOW WE THINK ABOUT OURSELF.
>> Ifill: IT INFORMS THE WAY
WE SEE OUR WORLD AND OUR PLACE
IN THE WORLD, IN THE LARGER
UNIVERSE?
>> YEAH, WHAT SEPARATES US FROM
MERELY EXISTING, SURVIVING FROM
DAY TO DAY IS WE ARE CURIOUS.
WE ARE CREATURES THAT WANT TO
UNDERSTAND.
LIKE CARL SAGAN, WHOSE COSMOS IS
BACK ON TV NOW, CARL SAGAN ONCE
SAID WE ARE THE UNIVERSE'S WAY
OF THINKING ABOUT ITSELF.
WE ARE A COLLECTION OF ATOMS AND
PARTICLES JUST LIKE THE REST OF
THE UNIVERSE, BUT WE HAVE THE
POWER TO THEORIZE, TO GO OUT
THERE AND COLLECT DATA AND TO
UNDERSTAND THE CONTEXT OF THIS
WONDERFUL UNIVERSE WE LIVE IN.
>> IT SOUNDS ALMOST THEOLOGICAL.
THINK IT'S A SIMILAR
IMPELLS THAT DRIVES PEOPLE TO
EOLOTHGY AND SCIENCE.
YOU WANT TO UNDERSTAND THE
BIGGER PICTURE.
I THINK SCIENCE IS DIFFERENT
THAN THEOLOGY IN MANY WAYS, ONE
OF WHICH IS YOU'VE GOT TO MAKE
PREDICTIONS AND IF THE
PREDICTIONS DON'T COME TRUE, YOU
THROW AWAY YOUR THEORY.
THE WONDERFUL THING NOW IS THIS
EXTRAPOLATION FROM ALLAN BOOTH
AND COLLABORATORS OVER 30 YEARS
AGO SOMEHOW MIRACULOUSLY SEEMED
TO GET THE RIGHT ANSWER AND OUR
ABILITY TO COMPREHEND OUR COSMOS
HAS BEEN DEMONSTRATED ONCE
AGAIN.
>> Ifill: BUT IT STILL
REQUIRES CORROBORATION.
>> OH, ABSOLUTELY.
THIS IS A RESULT OF THE SPECIFIC
TELLSCOPE CALLED THE BICEP 2
COLLABORATION.
THEY'RE VERY, VERY GOOD.
I KNOW A LOT OF SCIENTISTS ON
THIS EXPERIMENT.
THEY'RE SUPER CAREFUL AND TRY
THEIR BEST, BUT WE'RE NOT GOING
TO ABSOLUTELY BELIEVE IT UNTIL
SOMEONE ELSE SEES EXACTLY THE
SAME THING.
THE GOOD NEWS IS THERE'S HALF A
DOZEN E EXPERIMENTS THAT WILL BE
CHECKING THIS RESULT SO IN A
YEAR OR TWO WE'LL KNOW
ABSOLUTELY SURE WHETHER OR NOT
THIS IS RILE.
>> Ifill: SEAN CARROLL, THANK
YOU SO MUCH.
>> THA YOUNK.
>> Woodruff: THE NATIONAL BATTLE
OVER INEQUALITY, THE RICH,
VERSUS THE REST OF THE
POPULATION, HAS TAKEN A CURIOUS
TURN IN THE SAN FRANCISCO BAY
AREA WHERE BUSES CARRYING HIGH
TECH WORKERS HAVE BECOME A
SYMBOL OF THE DIVIDE.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
SPENCER MICHELS HAS OUR STORY
>> Reporter: EVERY WEEKDAY
MORNING, BETWEEN 7:30 AND 10:00,
DOZENS OF BIG, SLEEK BUSES ROLL
DOWN VALENCIA STREET IN THE
HEART OF SAN FRANCISCO'S
TRADITIONALLY LATINO MISSION
DISTRICT AND OTHER CITY
THOROUGHFARES.
USING BUS STOPS CREATED FOR CITY
BUSES, THE PRIVATE COACHES PICK
UP A CARGO OF WORKERS WHO FOR
THE MOST PART HAVE MOVED INTO
THE CITY AND WORK 30 OR 40 MILES
SOUTH OF IT AT PLACES LIKE
GOOGLE, FACEBOOK, APPLE, E-BAY
AND YAHOO.
THE FREE BUSES, GENERALLY
REFERRED TO AS GOOGLE BUSES, ARE
ONE OF THE PERKS FOR HIGH TECH
WORKERS IN HIGH DEMAND IN
SILICON VALLEY.
WHEN THEY BEGAN ROLLING SIX OR
SEVEN YEARS AGO, THEY WERE
GENERALLY PRAISED AS AN
ALTERNATIVE TO CROWDED HIGHWAYS
AND CARBON EMISSIONS FROM CARS.
BUT THAT'S NOT THE ISSUE, SAYS
WRITER REBECCA SOLNIT, ONE OF
THE FIRST TO CHARGE THAT THE
BUSES WERE MORE THAN A WAY TO
GET TO WORK.
>> THEY'RE UNMARKED, WITH TINTED
WINDOWS, SO YOU DON'T KNOW WHO'S
INSIDE.
THEY'RE LIKE A CROSS BETWEEN A
LIMOUSINE AND AN ARMORED
PERSONNEL CARRIER, CRUISING
AROUND THE CENTRAL CITY.
>> Reporter: CRITICS SAY THE
BUSES ARE CLOGGING CITY BUS
STOPS.
AND WHILE THE TECH COMPANIES
HAVE RECENTLY AGREED TO PAY THE
CITY A DOLLAR PER BUS PER STOP
FOR THEIR USE, THE CRITICS SAY
IT ISN'T ENOUGH TO MAKE UP FOR
THE CONGESTION THEY CAUSE, SO
FEELINGS ARE RAW.
THE BUSES HAVE SPARKED A NASTY
DEBATE THAT HAS FOUND ITS WAY
ONTO YOUTUBE, WITH THE SATIRICAL
GOOGLE BUS SONG.
IM ON THAT GOOGLE BUS
HANGING WITH THE UPPER CRUST
LEFT MY PORSCHE BACK IN MY CONDO
WITH MY POODLE PUPS
>> Reporter: SOLNIT AND OTHERS
SAY THE BUSES ARE SYMBOLS OF THE
DISPARITY IN WEALTH BETWEEN THE
NEW TECH WORKERS AND THE LONG-
TIME WORKING CLASS RESIDENTS OF
NEIGHBORHOODS LIKE THE MISSION.
AND, SHE ADDS, THE INFLUX OF
TECHIES IS GENTRIFYING THE CITY.
>> JOE GOOGLE MOVES INTO THE
APARTMENT FROM WHICH JOSE, AUTO
MECHANIC, HAS BEEN EVICTED.
JOSE AUTO MECHANIC IS NOW GOING
TO MOVE TO VALLEJO, AND HAVE A
HELLACIOUS COMMUTE TO THE AUTO
BODY SHOP, IN SAN FRANCISCO.
AND NO LUXURY BUS WITH TINTED
WINDOWS AND WI-FI ONBOARD IS
GOING TO PULL UP AT HIS NEW HOME
IN VALLEJO TO BRING HIM TO THE
OFFICE.
SO WHAT YOU'ING IS
DISPLACING THE MORE VULNERABLE
PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: THE BUSES HAVE
INSPIRED A SERIES OF PROTESTS
THAT IN TURN HAVE SPARKED A
LIVELY DEBATE ON THE MERITS OF
THE HIGH TECH BOOM TAKING PLACE
IN THE BAY AREA, AND IT'S
EFFECTS ON RESIDENTS.
ONE WOMAN WEARING HIGH TECH
GOOGLE GLASS WAS ATTACKED IN A
BAR AFTER REFUSING TO TAKE THEM
OFF.
HER GLASS RECORDED THE INCIDENT.
SHE SAID ONE OF HER ASSAILANTS
TOLD HER YOU GUYS ARE KILLING
THE CITY.
AT CITY HALL, SUPERVISOR SCOTT
WEINER IS AMAZED AT THE
HOSTILITY THAT SOME SAN
FRANCISCANS HAVE SHOWN TO WHAT
HE SEES AS AN INFLUX OF NEW JOBS
FOR THE AREA, WORKERS WITH MONEY
TO SPEND, AND NEW DEVELOPMENT.
>> MOST CITIES WOULD BE THRILLED
TO HAVE AN INDUSTRY COME IN THAT
HAS GOOD PAYING JOBS, WITH GOOD
BENEFITS, AND WORKERS WHO ARE
ACTUALLY PAID WELL.
>> Reporter: SOME SAN
FRANCISCANS SAY THAT
GENTRIFICATION IS A SYMPTOM OF A
HEALTHY ECONOMY, NOT A WAR ON
THOSE WITHOUT ENOUGH MONEY.
ADRIAN COVERT IS A POLICY
SPECIALIST FOR THE BAY AREA
COUNCIL, A BUSINESS ALLIANCE.
>> THE BAY AREA IS ADDING JOBS
BECAUSE IT'S A GOOD PLACE TO DO
BUSINESS, AND AT THE SAME TIME
SILICON VALLEY HAS FAILED TO
PROVIDE ENOUGH HOUSING FOR ALL
ITS WORKFORCE.
AND SO YOU SEE THE WORKFORCE IS
SPILLING OVER INTO THE
SURROUNDING BAY AREA.
>> Reporter: ONE PROBLEM, SAYS
SUPERVISOR WEINER, IS THAT
CITIES HAVE MADE IT TOO TOUGH TO
DEVELOP NEW HOUSING.
>> AVERAGE RENTS ARE OVER $3,000
A MONTH.
I THINK IT'S VERY IMPORTANT THAT
WE FOCUS ON ADDRESSING OUR
STRUCTURAL HOUSING PROBLEMS,
WHICH WE AS A CITY HAVE CREATED
OVER A PERIOD OF DECADES BY
MAKING IT TOO HARD TO BUILDING
HOUSING, AND NOT SCAPEGOAT THE
SHUTTLES FOR OUR HOUSING
PROBLEMS.
>> Reporter: BUT HOUSING
ACTIVISTS SAY THE TECH COMPANIES
ARE CULPABLE FOR CHANGING THE
NATURE OF THE CITY, RESULTING IN
THE EVICTION OF LONG-TIME
RESIDENTS TO MAKE WAY FOR THE
YOUNG AND WELL PAID.
ERIN MCELROY ORGANIZES FOR THE
SAN FRANCISCO TENANTS UNION,
WHICH PUT TOGETHER THIS RALLY TO
HALT EVICTIONS, WHICH SHE CLAIMS
HAVE INCREASED 175% IN THE LAST
YEAR.
>> THE REAL ISSUE IS
GENTRIFICATION AND THE SYSTEMIC
DISPLACEMENT OF LONGTIME
RESIDENTS IN SAN FRANCISCO, AND
WHAT'S HAPPENING IS THE PEOPLE
ARE BEING DISPLACED BY A
PARTICULAR POLITICAL ECONOMY
THAT'S BENEFITING FROM THE MONEY
THAT TECH IS BRINGING INTO THE
CITY.
>> Reporter: MCELROY SAYS THAT
LANDLORDS HAVE FOUND A WAY
AROUND CITY-ENACTED RENT
CONTROL, USING A STATE LAW THAT
MAKES IT TOO EASY FOR LANDLORDS
TO EVICT LOW-PAYING TENANTS FROM
THEIR APARTMENTS.
THAT, SHE SAYS, IS WHAT IS
HAPPENING TO ROOMMATES TOM RAPP
AND PATRICIA KERMAN, WHO ARE
BEING FORCED OUT OF THEIR RENT-
CONTROLLED THREE-BEDROOM
APARTMENT IN AN OLD MISSION
DISTRICT BUILDING, WHERE THEIR
RENT IS LESS THAN A THOUSAND
DOLLARS A MONTH.
>> WHAT'S REALLY HAPPENING IS
THAT LONG TERM RESIDENTS ARE
BEING THROWN OUT ON THE STREET,
LIKE GARBAGE.
AND IT'S NOT JUST ME.
PEOPLE WHO HAVE LIVED HERE TWO,
THREE, FOUR GENERATIONS.
BECAUSE THEY DIDN'T HAVE THE
MONEY TO BUY PROPERTY, THEY'RE
VICTIMS.
>> SO THE CITY IS NO LONGER A
PLACE THAT YOU KNOW IF YOU'RE
POOR WORKING CLASS, EVEN MIDDLE
CLASS, THAT YOU CAN AFFORD TO
LIVE IN.
>> Reporter: FOR SOME COMPANIES
IN SILICON VALLEY, THE FUROR
OVER THE BUSES, AND THEIR
SYMBOLISM OF THE DIVIDE BETWEEN
RICH AND POOR, HAVE BECOME AN
EMBARRASSMENT OF SORTS, AS THEY
PULL UP TO STOPS NEAR THE HIGH
TECH CAMPUSES AND DISCHARGE
THEIR COMPUTER-CARRYING CARGO OF
SAN FRANCISCO RESIDENTS.
GOOGLE DECLINED OUR REQUEST TO
COMMENT ON THE BUS CONTROVERSY,
AND WHAT IT REPRESENTS, AND SAID
IT HAS DISCOURAGED ITS EMPLOYEES
FROM TALKING TO THE PRESS.
THE COMPANY DID POINT TO
PREPARED STATEMENTS IT HAD MADE,
SAYING WE CERTAINLY DON'T WANT
TO CAUSE ANY INCONVENIENCE TO
BAY AREA RESIDENTS.
>> NEARLY ALL EMPLOYEES WE ASKED
REMAINED MUTE, EXCEPT FOR ONE
OPERATIONS WORKER.
>> NOT EVERYONE RIDING THE BUS
IS YOU KNOW, RICH.
I CAN GUARANTEE YOU THAT.
BUSES ARE NOT THE PROBLEM,
RIGHT?
I THINK THE JOBS ARE THE
PROBLEM.
IF PEOPLE HAVE JOBS, IF PEOPLE
HAVE OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE THEIR
INCOME, YOU KNOW, THEY WOULD NOT
BE FOCUSED ON THE BUSES.
>> Reporter: AS IF IN ANSWER TO
ALL THE CRITICISM, IN LATE
FEBRUARY, GOOGLE ANNOUNCED IT
WAS DONATING $6.8 MILLION OVER
TWO YEARS TO PROVIDE FREE RIDES
FOR LOW INCOME YOUTH ON SAN
FRANCISCO CITY BUSES.
THE BUSINESS COUNCILS COVERT
PRAISED THAT MOVE, AND GOOGLE
BUSES AS WELL.
>> I THINK THEY'RE BEING PRETTY
GOOD COMMUNITY PLAYERS.
I THINK THAT GOOGLE AND OTHER
COMPANIES HAVE IDENTIFIED A BIG
GAP IN THE BAY AREAS PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION SERVICE, AND ARE
SPENDING HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS TO ADDRESS THAT GAP, BY
PROVIDING THESE BUSES.
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, STATE
LAWMAKERS FROM SAN FRANCISCO
HAVE INTRODUCED BILLS TO REDUCE
EVICTIONS.
AND, AS THE BUSES ROLL ON, THE
CITY SUPERVISORS ARE DEBATING
HOW TO DEAL WITHHOSE T BUSES,
AND E ISTHSUES THEY RAISE.
>> Woodruff: PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
WARNED FOR YEARS ABOUT THE
DANGERS OF EATING TOO MANY
SATURATED FATS AND THE RISKS
THEY POSE FOR HEART DISEASE.
BUT A NEW ANALYSIS OF MORE THAN
70 STUDIES FINDS THAT SATURATED
FATS DO NOT NECESSARILY LEAD TO
GREATER PROBLEMS WITH HEART
HEALTH.
THE RESEARCH, PUBLISHED IN THE
ANNALS OF INTERNAL MEDICINE,
ALSO FOUND NO REAL BENEFIT FROM
TAKING OMEGA-3 FATTY ACID
SUPPLEMENTS, LIKE FISH OIL.
CATHAL ARMSTRONG IS CHEF AND CO-
OWNER OF THE RESTAURANT EVE IN
ALEXANDRIA, VIRGINIA, WHO'S LONG
BEEN FOCUSED ON THESE ISSUES IN
HIS WORK AND COOKING, AND JOINS
ME NOW.
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: THIS IS A MEDICAL
STUDY.
YOU KNOW, WE MIGHT NORMALLY TALK
TO A SCIENTIST, BUT WE WANT TO
TALK TO SOMEBODY WHO WORKS WITH
FOOD, THINKS ABOUT FOOD ISSUES
EVERY DAY.
FIRST OF ALL, WERE YOU SURPRISED
THAT THE RESULT WAS THAT
SATURATED FATS MAY NOT KNOWS BE
BAD FOR YOUR HEART?
>> NO, I WASN'T SURPRISED AT
ALL.
WE'VE KNOWN FOR YEARS THAT
ANIMAL FATS ARE ACTUALLY GOOD
FOR YOU AND, YOU KNOW, BEING
INVOLVED IN THE FOOD INDUSTRY
AND WHAT WE DO, IT ALWAYS
BOGGLES MY MIND WHEN YOU HEAR
PEOPLE COME UP WITH THIS IDEA
THAT THIS AREA OF FOOD OR THIS
ONE IS BAD FOR YOU, YOU
SHOULDN'T BE EATING CARBS OR
FATS AND TO BROAD BRUSH STROKE
THINGS LIKE THAT IS NOT
ACCURATE.
FOOD IS MORE COMPLEX.
A PERFECT EXAMINER IS ORANGE
JUICE.
FOR YEARS, EVERYONE SAYS DRINK
ORANGE JUICE AND TURNS OUT IT'S
SUGAR, THE COMPLEXITY OF THE
ORANGE, WE'RE MISSING OUT ON THE
BENEFITS.
>> Woodruff: THEY LOOKED AT
CHOLESTEROL WHICH SATURATED FAT
CREATES BUT THERE'S DIFFERENT
KINDS OF CHOLESTEROL.
NOT JUST HIGH OR LOW DENSITY BUT
EVEN MORE LEVELS OF CHOLESTEROL
THAN THAT.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
AND THAT'S ANOTHER GOOD EXAMPLE
WHERE PEOPLE SAID HIGH
CHOLESTEROL IS BAD FOR YOU.
CHOLESTEROL IS ACTUALLY A
REQUIREMENT OF THE BODY.
WE KNOW WE NEED CHOLESTEROL TO
ABSORB FOOD PROPERLY AND TO SAY
THAT CHOLESTEROL IS A BAD THING
MISLEADS PEOPLE AND I THINK, YOU
KNOW, VERY OFTEN, PEOPLE HAVE A
TENDENCY TO LATCH ON TO OUR WORD
AND GET MISGUIDED.
THE CHOLESTEROL THAT'S IN BUTTER
IS VERY HEALTHY FOR YOU, BUT WE
SAW FOR YEARS THAT CHOLESTEROL
IS BAD -- WE THOUGHT FOR YEARS
CHOLESTEROL IS BAD.
WE SHOULDN'T USE BUTTER?
THAT'S FALSE.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU AS
SOMEBODY WHO WORKS WITH FOOD
EVERY DAY THINK ABOUT THE
DIFFERENT CHEST ROLLS IN THE
FOOD YOU COOK?
>> NO DOUBT.
THERE'S A FOOD WHICH IS A VERY
FATTY HAM FED WITH ALL ACORN
DIET WHICH ACTUALLY LOWERS
L.D.L. AND RAISES H.D.L. SO
MAKES SINCE THE MORE HAM YOU EAT
THE BETTER OFF YOU WILL BE, BUT
THAT'S NOT TRUE EITHER.
>> Woodruff: CATHAL ARMSTRONG
THEY DID FIND ANOTHER CULPRIT
AND SUGAR, HI CARBOHYDRATE
FOODS.
YOU'VE HAD AN INTEREST IN THAT.
>> YES, WE HAVE BEEN INVOLVED IN
THE SCHOOL CAMPAIGNS WHICH IS AN
IMPORTANT CAMPAIGN AND GREAT
LEADERSHIP.
I'M CONVINCED, WATCHING IT FROM
THE SIDELINES, FROM A
NON-SCIENTIFIC PERSPECTIVE, I
THINK IT'S FAIRLY EASY TO SEE
THAT SUGAR IS THE PROBLEM WITH
THE ALL THE HEALTH PROBLEM WITH
HEALTHCARE IN OUR COUNTRY.
WE LOOK AT DIABETES, GROCERY
STORES CLAIM TO BE HEALTHY, BUT
I DEFY YOU TO SPEND LESS THAN 10
MINUTES TO FIND BREAD WITHOUT
SWEETENER.
THE CLASSIC BAGUETTE, THERE'S NO
SUGAR IN THOSE RECIPES.
SO EVEN SUBSTITUTING AGAVE OR
NECTAR, HONEY, ISN'T REALLY A
SOLUTION, IT'S JUST ANOTHER
SWEETENER ADDING TO THE POOR
HEALTH OF OUR PEOPLE.
THE MAIN THING HERE IS NOT TO
SUGGEST THAT SUGAR IS BAD, IT'S
TOO MUCH SUGAR, AND WE HAVE
SUGAR IN EVERYTHING.
IT'S IN BEER, SO DAY, KETCHUP,
IN EVERY FOOD ON EVERY SHELF AND
THERE IS TOO MUCH IN OUR DIET.
>> THERE'S A PUSHBACK.
I SAW A QUOTE FROM A SCIENTIST
WHO WORKS AT THE AMERICAN HEART
ASSOCIATION WHO SAID IT WOULD BE
UNFORTUNATE TO SUGGEST THESE
RESULTS ARE SAYING PEOPLE COULD
GO BACK TO EAT BUTTER AND CHEESE
WITH ABANDON.
THAT'S NOT WHAT YOU'RE SAYING.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
I RECOMMEND A BALANCED DIET.
I THINK WE'VE COME TO THE
REALIZATION SATURATED FAT IS NOT
BAD BUT TOO MUCH IS.
ANIMAL PROTEIN IS THE ONLY
SOURCE FOR VIET BIN B-16 WHICH
YOU NEED BUT NOT TOO MUCH.
WE NEED TO RETURN TO WHAT OUR
GRANDPARENTS ATE AND EAT FOOD
THAT'S IN VACCINES IN YOUR
LOCALE.
THAT'S HOW PEOPLE EVOLVED IS TO
EAT WHAT WAS IN OUR LOCALITY
WHEN IT WAS IN VACCINES.
SO RIGHT NOW YOU SHOULD BE
EATING ROOT VEGETABLES AND IN
SUMMER ALL THE TOMATOES.
>> Woodruff: THEY'VE STUDIED
70 OR 80 OTHER STUDIES AND COME
BACK TO GROUND PRINCIPAL?
>> COME BACK TO WHAT GRANDMA
ATE.
I LOST 53 POUNDS AND PEOPLE SAY
HOW DID YOU DO IT?
SIMPLE.
DIET AND EXERCISE.
EAT A BALANCED DIET AND GOOD A
GOOD HOUR OF EXERCISE A DAY.
>> Woodruff: IS THAT THE
BOTTOM LINE, WHAT PEOPLE SHOULD
DO?
>> THAT IS THE BOTTOM LINE OF
THE STUDY AND THEY EVEN SAY IT
IN THE STUDY.
IF YOU WANT TO LIVE A HEALTHY
LIFESTYLE, BALANCED DIET AND
EXERCISE.
>> Woodruff: CATHAL ARMSTRONG,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Ifill: FOR THE 24 SOLDIERS
AWARDED THE MEDAL OF HONOR AT
THE WHITE HOUSE THIS AFTERNOON,
THEIR SERVICE IN WORLD WAR II,
KOREA AND VIETNAM HAD ALREADY
EARNED THEM A COMMENDATIONSTE T.
>> TODAY WE HAVE THE CHANCE TO
SET THE RECORD STRAIGHT.
>> Ifill: WITH THE EAST ROOM AS
A BACKDROP, THE PRESIDENT ACTED
TODAY TO RIGHT AN OLD WRONG,
AWARDING THE NATION'S HIGHEST
MEDAL FOR COMBAT VALOR TO A
GROUP OF TWO DOZEN HISPANIC,
JEWISH AND AFRICAN-AMERICAN
VETERANS.
THE CEREMONY CAME AFTER A 12-
YEAR REVIEW BY THE PENTAGON THAT
BLAMES RACIAL OR ETHNIC
DISCRIMINATION FOR DENYING THE
HONOR TO A NUMBER OF SERVICEMEN
FROM WORLD WAR TWO, KOREA AND
VIETNAM.
THE PRESIDENT SAID IT'S AN
EXAMPLE OF WHY THE NATION MUST
NOT SHY AWAY FROM CONFRONTING
PAST DISCRIMINATION.
>> NO NATION IS PERFECT.
BUT HERE IN AMERICA, WE CONFRONT
OUR IMPERFECTIONS AND FACE A
SOMETIMES PAINFUL PAST,
INCLUDING THE TRUTH THAT SOME OF
THESE SOLDIERS FOUGHT AND DIED
FOR A COUNTRY THAT DID NOT
ALWAYS SEE THEM AS EQUAL.
SO WE'VE, EACH GENERATION, WE
KEEP ON STRIVING TO LIVE UP TO
OUR IDEALS OF FREEDOM AND
EQUALITY AND TO RECOGNIZE THE
DIGNITY AND PATRIOTISM OF EVERY
PERSON, NO MATTER WHO THEY ARE,
WHAT THEY LOOK LIKE OR HOW THEY
PRAY.
>> Ifill: THE RECIPIENTS
RECOGNIZED THIS AFTERNOON HAD
ALREADY BEEN AWARDED THE
DISTINGUISHED SERVICE CROSS, THE
NATION'S SECOND HIGHEST MILITARY
COMMENDATION.
JUST THREE ARE STI ALILLVE,
VIETNAM VETERANS SANTIAGO
EREVIA, MELVIN MORRIS AND JOSE
RODELA.
EREVIA CHARGED INTO ONCOMING
FIRE TO KNOCK OUT FOUR ENEMY
BUNKERS, THEN TENDED TO WOUNDED
SOLDIERS.
RRFORMER GREEN BERET,
WAS WOUNDED THREE TIMES
RECOVERING THE BODY OF HIS
FATALLY WOUNDED MASTER SERGEANT.
RODELA REPEATEDLY EXPOSED
HIMSELF TO ENEMY FIRE DURING AN
18-HOUR BATTLE AS HE TRIED TO
CHECK ON CASUALTIES IN HIS
COMPANY.
AFTER RECOUNTING THOSE HEROIC
EFFORTS, THE PRESIDENT INVITED
ALL THREE MEN ON STAGE FOR A
SPECIAL TRIBUTE, RECITING
TENNYSON.
ONE EQUAL TEMPER OF HEROIC
HEARTS,
MADE WEAK BY TIME AND FATE, BUT
STRONG IN WILL
TO STRIVE, TO SEEK, TO FIND, AND
NOT TO YIELD.
>> SANTIAGO EREVIA, MELVING
MORRIS, JOSE RODELA. IN THE
THICK OF THE FIGHT.
FOR YOUR COMRADES AND COUNTRY
REFUSED TO YIELD.
ON BEHALF OF GRATEFUL NATION,
THANK YOU FOR INSPIRING US WITH
STRENGTH, WILL, HEROIC HEARTS.
PLEASE GIVEN THEM A ROUND OF
APPLAUSE.
( APPLAUSE )
THE SOLDIERS RECOGNIZED TODAY
REPRESENT THE LARGEST SINGLE
GROUP OF MEDAL OF HONOR
RECIPIENTS SINCE WORLD WAR TWO.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT READ
CITATIONS FOR ALL 24 TODAY, AS
FAMILY MEMBERS ACCEPTED THE
HONOR FOR DECEASED RELATIVES.
FOR MORE ON HOW TODAY'S
REMARKABLE CEREMONY CAME TO BE,
WE TURN TO RETIRED LIEUTENANT
COLONEL SHELDON GOLDBERG.
HE IS A 30-YEAR AIR FORCE
VETERAN, NOW A DOCENT AT THE
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF JEWISH
MILITARY HISTORY.
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
IT'S INTERESTING HOW MANY OF
THESE 24 WERE EITHER
JEWISH-AMERICANS, HI
HISPANIC-AMERICANS, ONE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN.
HOW DID THIS COME TO BE TODAY?
>> THIS CAME TO BE, BACK IN THE
YEAR 2000 OR SO, AFTER EARLIER
ETHNIC GROUPS HAD BEEN AWARDED
THE CONGRESSIONAL MEDAL OF
HONOR, IT WAS QUESTIONED WHETHER
OR NOT THERE WERE ANY JEWISH
VETERANS WHO HAD BEEN DENIED
THIS AND, AS A RESULT,
CONGRESSMAN WEXLER PUT TOGETHER
AN ACT CALLED THE LEONARD
KRAVITZ JEWISH WAR VETERANS ACT
OF 2001, AND THIS ACT THEN GOT
EXPANDED SOMEWHAT TO ALLOW ALSO
FOR HISPANIC AND
AFRICAN-AMERICAN AND OTHER
ETHNIC GROUPS.
>> Ifill: BASICALLY GO BACK
THROUGH THE FILES AND
RECONSTRUCT PEOPLE WHO --
>> RIGHT, AND THROUGH WORLD
WAR II AND ALSO UP TO KOREA.
TO THE CRITERIA WAS FIRST TO
REVIEW THOSE WHO THAT DID WON
THE DISTINGUISHED SERVICE CROSS.
AND MY UNDERSTANDING IS THEY
PICKED OUT ABOUT 625 SOLDIERS.
FROM THAT, IT WAS WHITTLED DOWN
AGAIN AFTER REVIEWS AND
DOCUMENTATION AND SO ON TO ABOUT
200-AND-SOME-ODD.
THIS IS WHY IT TOOK TO LONG.
IT TOOK TEN YEARS TO DO THIS BUT
I THINK THE FACT THAT THE RECORD
CENTER IN ST. LOUIS HAD BEEN
BURNED AND RECORDS LOST.
>> Ifill: YOU MENTIONED
LEONARD KRAVITZ, WHOSE NEPHEW
WAS AT THE WHITE HOUSE, HE'S
KNOWN AS LENNY KRAVITZ.
>> YES.
>> Ifill: HOW WIDESPREAD WAS
THE KIND OF DISCRIMINATION THAT
WOULD ALLOW PEOPLE NOT TO BE
RECOGNIZED FOR THEIR H HEROICS?
>> DURING MY TIME IN SERVICE, I
DID NOT NOTICE ANYTHING LIKE
THAT.
I CANNOT THINK OF ONE
ANTISEMITIC INCIDENT I WITNESSED
IN MY ENTIRE 30 YEARS.
BUT YOU HAVE TO GO BACK TO THE
CIVIL WAR AND THEREAFTER WHERE
ANTISEMITISM, PREJUDICE AGAINST
BLACKS, FOR EXAMPLE, PEOPLE
BELIEVED THAT THEY DID NOT
FIGHT.
MARK TWAIN HIMSELF WROTE AN
ARTICLE IN HARPER'S MAGAZINE, I
BELIEVE IN 1895, THAT SAID WHILE
THE JEW WAS A GREAT CIVIL
SERVANT, HE NEGLECTED TO STAND
BUT FOR THE FLAG, AND THIS WAS
THE REASON THE JEWISH WAR
VETERANS, FOR EXAMPLE, WAS
FORMED IN 1896 TO SHOW THAT
JEWS, FOR ONE, DID FIGHT, AND WE
WERE AT THE VERY FRONT AND
FOREFRONT OF COMBAT IN THE CIVIL
WAR AND IN SUBSEQUENT WARS
AFTERWARD.
>> Ifill: WHEN WE SEE THIS
KIND OF RECOGNITION TODAY, TO
YOU THERE'S A BROADER MEANING TO
IT?
>> IT'S A GREAT DAY, I THINK,
FOR ALL AMERICANS.
I MEAN, IT SHOWS ONCE AND FOR
ALL THAT THERE'S RECOGNITION
THAT ETHNIC MINORITIES IN THE
UNITED STATES ARE JUST AS MUCH
AMERICAN, JUST AS PATRIOTIC AS
ANYONE ELSE AND THAT THEY DO, IN
FACT, FIGHT, DEFEND THEIR
COUNTRY, THEY ARE PATRIOTIC AND
THEY ARE RIGHT THERE AT THE VERY
FRONT LINES DOING WHAT IS
EXPECTED OF THEM TO DO AND MORE.
>> WELL, I THINK THAT CEREMONY
WA EMOTIONAL IT
WAS, ESPECIALLY BY SOME OF THE
SURVIVING FAMILY MEMBERS AND
MAKES ME WONDER WHETHER
RECOGNITION LIKE THIS,
ESPECIALLY AFTER SO MANY OF THEM
HAVE PASSED ON, CAN COME TOO
LATE?
>> I WAS THINKING ABOUT THAT
MYSELF EARLIER AND IT SEEMS TO
ME THAT THE OLD SAYING BETTER
LATE THAN NEVER IS EVEN MORE
APPROPRIATE.
THE FACT IS THAT THEY WERE
RECOGNIZED.
IT SHOWS US TO BE THE COUNTRY
THAT WE BELIEVE THAT WE ARE,
WHERE EVERYBODY HAS AN EQUAL
OPPORTUNITY, HAS A CHANCE TO BE
RECOGNIZED, AND I THINK, AS I
SAID, THIS IS REALLY A GREAT
DAY, I THINK, FOR ALL AMERICA,
NOT JUST JEWISH AMERICANS OR
AFRICAN-AMERICANS OR
HISPANIC-AMERICANS.
>> Ifill: WHAT IS IT ABOUT THE
MEDAL OF HONOR WHICH TAKES IT TO
THE NEXT LEVEL?
>> WELL, THAT IS THE HIGHEST
AWARD THAT CAN BE GIVEN FOR
COMBAT.
I MEAN, IT'S FOR ABOVE AND
BEYOND THE CALL OF DUTY, AND I
DON'T THINK ANYBODY ASPIRES TO
IT.
I THINK IF YOU TALK TO THESE
WINNERS, YOU WILL FIND THAT
THEY'RE PROBABLY THE MOST HUMBLE
GROUP OF PEOPLE THAT YOU WANT TO
MEET.
I'VE HAD THE PRIVILEGE TO MEET
SEVERAL CONGRESSIONAL MEDAL OF
HONOR RECIPIENTS AND THEY'RE
JUST OUTSTANDING INDIVIDUALS.
>> Ifill: THEY WERE QUITE
HUMBLE AT THE WHITE HOUSE TODAY
AS WELL.
>> I'M SURE.
>> Ifill: LIEUTENANT COLONEL
SHELDON GOLDBERG, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU FOR LETTING ME
COME.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
RUSSIA ALL BUT COMPLETED THE
ANNEXATION OF CRIMEA FROM
UKRAINE, AS PRESIDENT VLADIMIR
PUTIN DEFENDED THE MOVE IN A
FIERY SPEECH.
AND THE MYSTERY SURROUNDING THAT
MISSING MALAYSIAN JETLINER
STRETCHED INTO AN 11TH DAY, WITH
RELATIVES OF THE PASSENGERS
DEMANDING ANSWERS.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR RIGHT
NOW, THE LATEST IN OUR SOCIAL
ENTREPRENEURSHIP SERIES: HELPING
WOMEN GROW SMALL BUSINESSES IN
RURAL TANZANIA.
WE TAKE A LOOK AT THE "TWO-SEEDS
NETWORK," A NON-PROFIT DEDICATED
TO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT IN
AFRICA.
AND JEFFREY BROWN HAS SENT US
HIS SECOND DISPATCH FROM
MYANMAR, WHERE HE'S REPORTING ON
"CULTURES AT RISK."
HOW DOES AN ANCIENT CITY, AND
ITS THOUSAND-YEAR-OLD BUDDHIST
TEMPLES, COPE WITH NEWFOUND
POPULARITY?
YOU CAN READ HIS BLOG ON ART
BEAT.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT
FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIR JANET
YELLEN'S FIRST NEWS CONFERENCE
AND HER TAKE ON THE STATE OF THE
ECONOMY.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE.
AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.